1. Class

Blueprint or template for objects.
Defines attributes (what it has) and methods (what it can do).

2. Object

Real instance of a class.
Each object has its own copy of attributes.

3. Instance Variable / Attribute

Variables inside a class, representing the state of an object.
Each object has its own copy.

4. Parameter

Value passed to a method or constructor.
Temporary, exists only during the call.

5. Constructor

Special method to initialize an object.
Same name as the class, no return type.
Can be default (no input) or parameterized (custom input).

6. Method

Defines behavior or actions an object can perform.
Can have any name and return type.

7. Driver Class

Contains the main program.
Creates objects and calls methods to perform actions.

8. Key Points

Class = blueprint, Object = actual thing
Constructor = sets attributes, Method = performs actions
Use this to distinguish object attributes from parameters

Copy Constructor (OOP Short Notes)
1. Definition

A special constructor used to create a new object as a copy of an existing object.
Duplicates the attributes of an existing object into a new one.

2. Purpose

To clone an object with the same state.
Avoids manual assignment of attributes.
Ensures the original object remains unchanged if desired.

3. Key Points

Takes an object of the same class as a parameter.
Creates a new object.
Can perform:
Shallow copy → copies primitive data, references point to same objects
Deep copy → copies everything, including separate copies of reference objects

4. When to Use

Cloning objects.
Passing objects by value to functions.
Returning objects from functions.
Avoiding repetitive code when creating similar objects.

🔹 1️⃣ What is a Getter?
Getter (also called an accessor) is a method used to read or access the value of a private attribute.
Naming convention: getAttributeName()
Purpose: Allows controlled access to a private variable.

What is a Setter?
Setter (also called a mutator) is a method used to change or set the value of a private attribute.
Naming convention: setAttributeName(value)
Purpose: Allows controlled modification of a private variable.

Why Use Getters and Setters?

Encapsulation: Keeps attributes private and secure.
Validation: You can check values before setting them (e.g., doors cannot be negative).
Flexibility: Can change implementation later without affecting other code.

// private int numOfDoors;  // private
   // Outside this class, can't do car.numOfDoors = 4
   // Must use setter: car.setNumOfDoors(4)

   public int numOfDoors;  // public
   car.numOfDoors = 4;    // direct access
   int doors = car.numOfDoors; // direct read

   Modifier	Where Accessible	Use Case
   private	Only inside the same class	Use getters/setters to access outside
   protected	Same class, subclasses, and same package	Useful for inheritance when derived classes need direct access
   public	Anywhere	Accessible from any class — not safe for encapsulation


   // ToString()
   Components:
   public	Must be public because Object.toString() is public.
   String	The method returns a String representing the object.
   toString()	The exact name of the method in Object class.
   { ... }	The code that returns the string representation.


    1. Method Overloading

    Definition:
    Method overloading occurs when multiple methods in the same class have the same name but different parameter lists.
    It is resolved at compile time.
    This is called compile-time polymorphism.

3 Main Uses of super
super(...) → call parent constructor
super.method() → call parent method
super.variable → access parent variable (if not private)

final method → cannot be overridden
final class → cannot be extended
final variable → cannot be changed after assignment
Think of visibility like doors:

private → very closed
protected → semi-open
public → fully open
You’re allowed to open the door more.
You’re not allowed to close it more.

private methods cannot be overridden.
final methods cannot be overridden.
public and protected methods can be overridden.
Access level in child cannot be more restrictive than parent.

Final:
Must be initialized either at declaration or in the constructor.
Makes your code safer because the value can’t change unexpectedly.
Final Variable: Value cannot change; must be initialized.
Final Method: Cannot be overridden by subclasses.
Final Class: Cannot be extended/inherited.
Final Parameter: Cannot be reassigned in the method.
Final + Static: Compile-time constant.
Key Idea: final = unchangeable, immutable, secure.

🔹 Polymorphism – Short Notes
🔵 What is Happening?
A method that accepts a parent class type (Vehicle) can receive:
Vehicle objects
Any subclass objects (Bus, Car, Sportcar, Racecar, etc.)
This is possible because of inheritance.
🔵 Upcasting
When a child object is passed as a parent type parameter, it is called upcasting.
The method treats the object as a Vehicle, even if it is actually a Bus or Sportcar.
🔵 Runtime Polymorphism (Dynamic Binding)
Even though the parameter type is Vehicle,
Java calls the method that belongs to the actual object type at runtime.
So:
If the object is a Bus → Bus version runs
If the object is a Sportcar → Sportcar version runs
The decision is made at runtime, not compile time.


🔵 Key Concepts Summary
Parent reference can hold child objects
Method overriding enables different behavior
Actual object type determines which method runs
This behavior is called polymorphism